SECRETARY OF STATE OFFERED
TENTATIVE HOPE TODAY THAT
DIPLOMACY MIGHT YET EASE THE
UNREST IN UKRAINE.
AS NEGOTIATORS EDGED TOWARD
DISARMING PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS AND GRANTING EASTERN
REGIONS MORE AUTONOMY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD TONIGHT.
THE DISCOVERY OF A PLANET THAT
SEEMS TO BE A LOT LIKE EARTH,
CLOSE TO THE SAME SIZE, AND JUST
FAR ENOUGOM A STAR TO
SUPPORT LIFE.
>> Ifill: PLUS, PAUL SOLMAN
RETURNS TO THE SEATTLE SUBURB
THAT VOTED FOR A $15 AN HOUR
MINIMUM WAGE.
THOSE RESIDENTSL BATTLE OVER
WORK HAS BLUNTED ITS EFFECT.
>> JUST OUTSIDE THE AIRPORT,
SOME 1600 WORKERS DID GET THEIR
RAISES.
BUT FOR THE 5,000 OR SO WORKERS
ON AIRPORT PROPERTY, THE COURT
DECISION NOW BEING APPEALED WAS
A BODY BLOW.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: SEARCH AND RESCUE
CREWS SPENT A SECOND DAY WORKING
TO FIND MORE THAN 270 PEOPLE
MISSING IN A FERRY DISASTER OFF
THE COAST OF SOUTH KOREA.
AT LEAST 25 DEATHS HAVE BEEN
CONFIRMED SINCE THE VESSEL WENT
DOWN YESTERDAY.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
LUCY WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, IN BEIJING.
>> THEY URGE FOR A RESPONSE.
BANGING THE HULL OF THIS
STRICKEN VESSEL, HOPING TO HEAR
SURVIVORS BECAUSE THIS IS STILL
A RESCUE OPERATION.
REMARKABLY, 24 HOURS EARLIER, AS
PASSENGERS PHONED FOR HELP,
THERE WAS AN UNEASY CALM.
THEY WERE UNAWARE OF HOW FAST
THEY WERE SINKING.
AN ANNOUNCEMENT TOLD THEM TO
STAY WHERE THEY WERE, BECAUSE IT
WAS LESS DANGEROUS.
BUT IT'S COME TO THIS.
COLLECTIVE ANGUISH AS YET
ANOTHER BODY IS BROUGHT IN.
AND THIS MAN, WHO COWERS FROM
THE CAMERAS, WAS THE CAPTAIN,
RESPONSIBLE FOR THOSE ONBOARD,
WHO COULD FACE A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION.
HE SAYS HE'S SORRY, HE'S
ASHAMED, BUT HE WAS ONE OF THE
FIRST TO ABANDON HIS SHIP.
SO THIS BOAT TOOK MANY FAMILIES
TO SEE IT FOR THEMSELVES.
TO BE CLOSE TO WHERE THEIR
CHILDREN COULD BE.
ALIVE, TRAPPED INSIDE AIR
POCKETS.
SUCH FRUSTRATION, AS AN
OPERATION HAMPERED TODAY BY
ROUGH SEAS.
EVEN A WATCHING PRESIDENT DIDN'T
NEED THE ENORMITY OF THIS
DISASTER POINTING OUT, BUT IT
WAS TOO MUCH FOR SOME.
THIS WAS A RELATIVE WHO
COLLAPSED AND WAS TAKEN TO
HOSPITAL, AND WHERE THIS YOUNG
GIRL IS.
SHE IS SIX YEARS OLD AND
REMEMBERS HER ORDEAL.
FILMED HERE BEING RESCUED
WITHOUT HER PARENTS AND WITHOUT
HER BROTHER.
SO EFFORTS MUST BE MADE FOR THE
HUNDREDS STILL MISSING.
NO MATTER HOW DESPERATE IT
APPEARS.
>> Woodruff: THREE SEA-GOING
CRANES ARE EXPECTED TO ARRIVE IN
THE NEXT TWO DAYS TO HELP
SALVAGE THE SUNKEN FERRY.
THERE WERE NEW CONCERNS TODAY
ABOUT THE FATE OF 115 NIGERIAN
SCHOOLGIRLS ABDUCTED BY ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
THE STUDENTS WERE KIDNAPPED
TUESDAY FROM A BOARDING SCHOOL
IN BORNO STATE, IN THE
NORTHEASTERN PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
TODAY, THE SCHOOL PRINCIPAL
DENIED THE NIGERIAN MILITARY'S
CLAIMS THAT MOST OF THE GIRLS
HAD BEEN FREED.
SHE SAID ONLY 14 HAVE RETURNED.
THE UNDERWATER SEARCH FOR
MALAYSIAN AIRLINES FLIGHT 370
HAS NARROWED.
AUTHORITIES IN AUSTRALIA SAID
Y ARGET
AREA AFTER ANALYZING FOUR PINGS
HEARD TEN DAYS AGO.
IT WAS UNCLEAR HOW MUCH LONGER
THE SEARCH WILL LAST, ESPECIALLY
ON THE INDIAN OCEAN'S SURFACE,
WHERE NOTHING'S BEEN FOUND.
MALAYSIA'S DEFENSE MINISTER
SPOKE IN KUALA LUMPUR.
>> THE INTENSIVE SEARCH IN THE
AREA THAT WHICH IS MOST LIKELY
TO BE WHERE WE CAN FIND POSSIBLE
TRACES OF THE AIRPLANE OR THE
BLACK BOX, IF AT ALL, WILL BE
OVER THE NEXT FEW DAYS.
ALL EFFORTS AND FOCUS IS BEING
FOCUSED IN THAT DIRECTION.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, A U.S.
NAVY DEEP SEA DRONE TURNED UP
NOTHING IN ITS FIRST FULL SCAN
OF THE INDIAN OCEAN FLOOR.
AND, OFFICIALS RULED OUT THE
POSSIBILITY THAT AN OIL SLICK IN
THE AREA CAME FROM THE PLANE.
IRAN HAS NOW NEUTRALIZED ALMOST
THREE QUARTERS OF ITS MOST
SENSITIVE NUCLEAR STOCKPILE.
THE UNITED NATIONS' ATOMIC
AGENCY REPORTED TODAY THAT MUCH
OF TEHRAN'S 20% ENRICHED URANIUM
HAS BEEN CONVERTED TO LESS
POTENT FORMS.
AT THE 20% LEVEL, IT'S CLOSE TO
BECOMING FUEL FOR NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
THE U.S. RESPONDED TO THE REPORT
BY RELEASING ANOTHER $450
MILLION IN FROZEN IRANIAN
ASSETS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOUTED NEW
NUMBERS TODAY ON HEALTH CARE
ENROLLMENTS.
HE ANNOUNCED THAT AT LEAST EIGHT
MILLION PEOPLE HAVE NOW SIGNED
UP THROUGH INSURANCE EXCHANGES.
ABOUT 35% ARE UNDER THE AGE OF
35, WHICH IS KEY TO MAKING THE
LAW WORK.
YOUNGER, HEALTHIER PEOPLE PAY IN
MORE THAN THEY USE IN MEDICAL
INSURANCE.
THE PRESIDENT SAID THE UPSHOT IS
THE REPEAL DEBATE SHOULD BE
HIS THING IS WORKING.
I'VE SAID BEFORE, THIS LAW WON'T
SOLVE ALL THE PROBLEMS IN OUR
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM, WE KNOW WE
HAVE MORE WORK TO DO, BUT WE NOW
KNOW FOR A FACT THAT REPEALING
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WILL
INCREASE THE DEFICIT, RAISE
PREMIUMS FOR MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS AND TAKE INSURANCE
AWAY FROM MILLIONS MORE.
>> Woodruff: HEALTH CARE LAW
OFFICIALS HAVE NOT YET RELEASED
FIGURES ON HOW MANY OF THE EIGHT
MILLION ENROLLEES HAD BEEN
UNINSURED.
NEW DATA FROM THE U.S. JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT SHOWS THE NUMBER OF
DEPORTATIONS OF UNLAWFUL
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED
COURT-ORDERED DEPORTATIONS HAVE
DROPPED 43% SINCE 2009.
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
TODAY DISPUTED WHITE HOUSE
CLAIMS ABOUT THE SIZE OF
DEFICITS AND TAX HIKES UNDER
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PROPOSED
BUDGET.
THE NON-PARTISAN AGENCY
ESTIMATED RED INK OF $6.6
TRILLION OVER TEN YEARS INSTEAD
OF $5 TRILLION AS THE BUDGET
FORECASTS.
THE C.B.O ALSO SAID TAX HIKES
WILL TOTAL $1.4 TRILLION
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE THAN OFFICIAL
ESTIMATES.
WALL STREET CLOSED OUT A SHORT
WORK WEEK ON A QUIET NOTE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 16 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,408.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NINE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4095.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED TWO, TO
FINISH NEAR 1865.
THE NOBEL-WINNING AUTHOR GABRIEL
GARCIA MARQUEZ DIED TODAY AT HIS
HOME IN MEXICO CITY.
HE'D BEEN ILL FOR SOME TIME.
STARTING IN 1947, AND GAINED
WORLD RENOWN FOR A STYLE KNOWN
AS MAGICAL REALISM.
HIS NOVELS INCLUDED "ONE HUNDRED
YEARS OF SOLITUDE" AND "LOVE IN
THE TIME OF CHOLERA", AMONG MANY
OTHERS.
GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ WAS 87
YEARS OLD.
ON A HAPPIER NOTE, CHELSEA
CLINTON IS EXPECTING HER FIRST
CHILD.
THE DAUGHTER OF FORMER PRESIDENT
BILL CLINTON AND FORMER
SECRETARY OF STATE HILLARY
CLINTON IS 34.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
THE TENTATIVE DEAL TO CALM THE
UNREST IN UKRAINE.
THE ONGOING NEGOTIATIONS OVER
DETROIT'S BANKRUPTCY.
A RETURN TO THE SEATTLE SUBURB
THAT VOTED FOR A $15 AN HOUR
MINIMUM WAGE.
A NEW PLANET THAT SEEMS TO BE A
LOT LIKE EARTH.
PLUS, WHITE HOUSE HOMELAND
SECURITY ADVISER LISA MONACO, ON
COMBATING EXTREMISM WITHIN OUR
BORDERS.
>> Ifill: GLIMMERS OF HOPE
SURFACED IN GENEVA TODAY AS THE
U.S., RUSSIA, UKRAINE AND THE
EUROPEAN UNION AGREED TO CALL
FOR AN IMMEDIATE HALT TO
VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT FOLLOWED ONE OF
THE BLOODIEST NIGHTS SINCE THE
NEW GOVERNMENT TOOK CONTROL IN
KIEV.
THREE PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND
MORE THAN A DOZEN WERE INJURED
AT A MILITARY BASE IN MARIUPOL.
LINDSEY HILSUM FROM INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS WAS THERE TODAY
AND FILED THIS REPORT.
>> BULLET CASINGS AND A BLOODIED
BANDAGE, EVIDENCE OF LAST
NIGHT'S CLASH BETWEEN UKRAINIAN
SOLDIERS GUARDING THIS BASE AND
MASKED INTRUDERS.
>> WE CAN ONLY GUESS WHO THEY
WERE BUT THEIR AIMS WERE
DEFINITELY NOT PEACEFUL.
THEIR MAIN GOAL WAS TO ENTER THE
MILITARY BASE AND SEIZE OUR
WEAPONS.
>> TODAY THE POLICE IN MARIUPOL
WERE TRYING TO ESTABLISH EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED.
I'VE BEEN TALKING TO A SOLDIER
WHO WAS HERE.
HE SAID AT FIRST THE PROTESTORS
WERE PEACEFUL AND INCLUDED WOMEN
AND CHILDREN, BUT THEN ARMED
MASKED MEN APPEARED WITHOUT
UNIFORMS.
HE SAID, FIRST OF ALL, THEY
TRIED TO STORM THIS GUARDHOUSE.
THEY HAD MOLOTOV COCKTAILS.
THEY CAME THROUGH AND WENT
CHARGING UP THERE, BUT AT THAT
POINT THE SOLDIERS REPELLED
THEM.
FOOTAGE FROM THE INCIDENT SHOWS
MOLOTOV COCKTAILS FLYING AS THE
MEN TRIED TO FORCE THEIR WAY
INTO THE BASE.
IT'S NOT CLEAR WHO WAS SHOOTING.
A VEHICLE CAUGHT FIRE OR WAS
MAYBE SET ABLAZE.
THEY CHANTED "BERKUT, BERKUT!"
THE NAME OF THE NOW DISBANDED
PARAMILITARY SECURITY POLICE
HATED IN WESTERN UKRAINE BUT
MUCH LOVED HERE IN THE EAST.
A PROTESTOR USED A MEGAPHONE TO
CALL ON THE TROOPS FROM THE
NATIONAL GUARD TO REJECT THE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV, BUT THEY
REFUSED.
THREE PROTESTORS WERE KILLED IN
THE FRACAS AND SEVERAL WOUNDED.
INCLUDING SERGEY SHEVCHENKO,
INJURED BY SHRAPNEL.
WE FOUND HIM IN HOSPITAL IN
MARIUPOL TODAY, HE SAID HE AND
HIS GROUP HAD NO FIREARMS, THEY
WANTED TO SEIZE THOSE IN THE
BASE SO THE SOLDIERS COULDN'T
FIGHT PEOPLE LIKE HIM WHO WANT
AN INDEPENDENT REPUBLIC IN
EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> ( translated ): WE TOOK
MOLOTOV COCKTAILS TO THE
MILITARY BASE BECAUSE THEY
TURNED THE LIGHTS OFF AND WE
COULDN'T SEE ANYTHING.
IF WE WERE GOING TO TAKE THEIR
WEAPONS WE NEEDED TO LIGHT OUR
WAY.
>> Reporter: BUT MOLOTOV
COCKTAILS ARE NOT LIGHTS MOLOTOV
COCKTAILS ARE FOR EXPLODING.
>> ( translated ): IF YOU WANT,
YOU CAN KILL A PERSON WITH A
TOOTHPICK OR A FORK.
IS THAT A GOOD EXPLANATION?
>> Reporter: POLICE WERE
GUARDING HIS HOSPITAL ROOM, HE
SAID HE EXPECTED TO BE ARRESTED
WHEN HE RECOVERED.
ANTI GOVERNMENT PROTESTORS
REMAIN IN CONTROL OF THE
MUNICIPAL HEADQUARTERS IN
MARIUPOL.
IN DONETSK TONIGHT, THOSE WHO
SUPPORT THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
ARE RALLYING ROUND THEIR FLAG,
SHOWING THAT NOT EVERYONE IN THE
EAST WANTS INDEPENDENCE OR
CLOSER LINKS WITH MOSCOW.
THE GENEVA STATEMENT SAYS ALL
SIDES MUST REFRAIN FROM VIOLENCE
AND INTIMIDATION.
IN THE HOPE THAT THE DEATHS IN
MARIUPOL WILL BE THE LAST.
>> Ifill: HOURS AWAY, IN
SWITZERLAND, DIPLOMACY RETURNED
TO CENTER STAGE.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
HAS THE DETAILS.
>> DIPLOMACY REQUIRES WILLING
PARTNERS.
>> Warner: THE TALKS IN GENEVA
BEGAN WITH LOW EXPECTATIONS, AS
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
MET WITH COUNTERPARTS FROM
UKRAINE, RUSSIA AND THE EUROPEAN
UNION.
BUT AFTER SEVEN HOURS OF
NEGOTIATIONS, THEY ANNOUNCED THE
TERMS OF A DEAL.
>> WE AGREED TODAY THAT ALL
ILLEGAL ARMED GROUPS MUST BE
DISARMED, THAT ALL ILLEGALLY
SEIZED BUILDINGS MUST BE
RETURNED TO THEIR LEGITIMATE
OWNERS AND ALL ILLEGALLY
OCCUPIED STREETS, SQUARES AND
OTHER PUBLIC PLACES IN UKRAINIAN
CITIES AND TOWNS MUST BE
VACATED.
>> Ifill: FOR ITS PART,
UKRAINE'S GOVERNMENT MUST MAKE
GOOD ON PLANS TO GRANT THE
EASTERN REGIONS MORE AUTONOMY AS
RUSSIA HAS DEMANDED.
EUROPEAN MONITORS ARE TO OVERSEE
COMPLIANCE.
KERRY ACKNOWLEDGED IT WON'T BE
EASY.
>> ALL OF THIS WE ARE CONVINCED
REPRESENTS A GOOD DAY'S WORK,
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND, IT'S
PRODUCED COMMITMENTS,
PRINCIPLES, WORDS ON PAPER.
WE'RE FIRST TO UNDERSTAND AND
AGREE THAT WORDS WILL ONLY MEAN
WHAT ACTIONS TAKEN AS RESULT
PRODUCE.
>> Warner: RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SERGEI LAVROV USED MUCH
THE SAME LANGUAGE TO DESCRIBE
THE DEAL.
>> ( translated ): WE APPROVED A
DOCUMENT, IN WHICH, WE AGREED ON
INITIAL CONCRETE STEPS.
ALL ILLEGAL ARMED GROUPS MUST BE
DISARMED, ALL ILLEGALLY SEIZED
BUILDINGS RETURNED TO THEIR
RIGHTFUL OWNERS.
>> Warner: BUT UNDERSCORING THE
DIFFICULTY, SOME PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS IN DONETSK SUGGESTED
THEY WEREN'T READY TO ACCEPT THE
TERMS.
THAT'S ONE OF TEN EASTERN
UKRAINE CITIES WHERE MILITANTS
HAVE SEIZED KEY GOVERNMENT
SITES.
THE U.S. AND UKRAINE HAVE
ACCUSED RUSSIA OF FOMENTING THE
UNREST, AND KERRY WARNED THE
ONUS IS ON MOSCOW TO MAKE THE
DEAL WORK OR FACE ADDITIONAL
SANCTIONS.
LATER, IN WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID MILITARY OPTIONS ARE
NOT ON THE TABLE, BUT HE SOUNDED
HIS OWN NOTE OF CAUTION ABOUT
THE AGREEMENT.
>> MY HOPE IS THAT WE ACTUALLY
DO SEE FOLLOW THROUGH OVER THE
NEXT SEVERAL DAYS, BUT I DON'T
THINK GIVEN PAST PERFORMANCE
THAT WE CAN COUNT ON THAT.
WE HAVE TO BE PREPARED TO
RESPOND TO WHAT CONTINUES TO BE
EFFORTS OF INTERFERENCE BY THE
RUSSIANS IN EAST AND SOUTH
UKRAINE.
HOURS EARLIER, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN HELD FORTH AT
LENGTH ON UKRAINE, IN AN ANNUAL
CALL IN SHOW.
HE SHARPLY CRITICIZED THE KIEV
GOVERNMENT.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE IN
EASTERN UKRAINE HAVE STARTED TO
ARM THEMSELVES.
AND INSTEAD OF REALIZING THAT
SOMETHING BAD IS GOING ON IN THE
UKRAINIAN STATE AND MAKE ANY
ATTEMPTS TO START A DIALOGUE,
THE AUTHORITIES HAVE STARTED TO
THREATEN WITH FORCE EVEN MORE
AND UNLEASHED TANKS AND AVIATION
ON CIVILIAN POPULATION.
THIS IS ANOTHER GRAVE CRIME OF
THE CURRENT KIEV AUTHORITIES.
>> MAURICE: PUTIN AGAIN DENIED
THAT RUSSIAN FORCES OR EVEN
INSTRUCTORS ARE PLAYING ANY ROLE
IN THE EVENTS IN EASTERN
UKRAINE, BUT FOR THE FIRST TIME,
HE ADMITTED THEY WERE INVOLVED
IN CRIMEA BEFORE IT WAS ANNEXED.
>> ( translated ): I DIDN'T
CONCEAL THAT IT WAS OUR TASK TO
PROVIDE CONDITIONS FOR THE FREE
EXPRESSION OF THE WILL OF
CRIMEA'S RESIDENTS.
THAT'S WHY WE HAD TO UNDERTAKE
NECESSARY MEASURES SO EVENTS
DIDN'T EVOLVE IN THE WAY THEY
ARE EVOLVING TODAY IN THE
SOUTHEAST OF UKRAINE.
>> Warner: THE RUSSIAN LEADER
WARNED MOSCOW MAY NOT RECOGNIZE
UPCOMING ELECTIONS IN UKRAINE
NEXT MONTH.
AND HE DID NOT RULE OUT
INTERVENING IN UKRAINE AGAIN.
>> ( translated ): I CAN REMIND
YOU THAT RUSSIA'S FEDERATION
COUNCIL GRANTED THE PRESIDENT
THE RIGHT TO USE MILITARY FORCE
IN UKRAINE.
I VERY MUCH HOPE THAT I WILL NOT
HAVE TO USE THAT RIGHT AND THAT
WE WILL BE ABLE SOLVE ALL
CURRENT PRESSING ISSUES IN
UKRAINE BY POLITICAL AND
DIPLOMATIC MEANS.
>> Warner: PUTIN EVEN TOOK A
QUESTION FROM AMERICAN EDWARD
SNOWDEN, THE NATIONAL SECURITY
LEAKER NOW LIVING IN ASYLUM IN
RUSSIA.
HE CALLED IN TO ASK IF RUSSIA
CONDUCTS AND HOLDS DATA ON
SWEEPING SURVEILLANCE OF PRIVATE
COMMUNICATIONS OF THE SORT HE'S
CHARGED THE U.S. DOES.
PUTIN SAID NO.
BACK IN KIEV, THE ACTING
UKRAINIAN PRIME MINISTER
DISMISSED PUTIN'S PERFORMANCE
AND ACCUSED HIM OF TELLING
FAIRY TALES.
>> THERE IS ONLY ONE PERSON IN
THE WORLD WHO BELIEVES THAT
THERE ARE NO RUSSIAN TROOPS IN
THE EAST OF UKRAINE.
HIS NAME IS VLADIMIR PUTIN.
>> Ifill: EARLIER THIS WEEK, THE
KIEV GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCED AN
ANTI-TERRORIST OPERATION AGAINST
THE PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS IN
THE EAST.
THAT OFFENSIVE HAS BOGGED DOWN
AND THERE WERE NO FURTHER
MILITARY MOVES TODAY.
MARGARET'S HERE WITH MORE.
MARGARET, YOU HAVE TO PARSE THIS
FOR YOU.
ON ONE HAND JOHN KERRY SAID BIG
NEW AGREEMENT AND ENTER THIS
PRESIDENT SOUND MORE CAUTIOUS
AND WE HEAR PUTIN SAYING THINGS
THAT THE UNITED STATES BELIEVES
NOT TO BE TRUE.
>> Warner: THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Ifill: DO THEY BELIEVE THIS
IS THE REAL DEAL?
>> Warner: THEY HONESTLY DON'T
KNOW, GWEN.
I TALKED TO OFFICIALS LATE THIS
AFTERNOON, THEY SAY WE DON'T
KNOW.
THE GLIMMER OF HOPE IS ABOUT AS
FAR AS PRESIDENT OBAMA WENT.
THERE WERE A COUPLE OF THINGS
THAT I THINK WERE NOTEWORTHY.
ONE, IT MAKES NO MENTION OF
RUSSIA DRAWING BACK THE 40,000
TROOPS THEY HAVE AMASSED ON THE
BORDER.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE THINGS
SECRETARY KERRY WAS GOING IN
THERE TO TALK ABOUT, OR AT LEAST
THAT'S WHAT WE WERE TOLD.
THE CONVERSATION I REFERRED TO
IN THE TAPED PIECE AND I
FOLLOWED UP FURTHER, WHICH IS
ONE OF HEADS OR ARMED GROUPS
TAKEN OVER THAT BUILDING HE TOLD
RUETERS AND ME THROUGH A
TRANSLATOR, WELL, LET'S -- IF
ALL ILLEGAL OCCUPATIONS HAVE TO
END LET'S CLEAR INDEPENDENT
SQUARE IN KIEV WHERE THE
ORIGINAL REVOLUTION
DEMONSTRATIONS TOOK PLACE THIS
WINTER AND PROTESTERS STILL
REMAIN TRYING TO KEEP THE NEW
GOVERNMENT HONEST.
I WHEN I FOLLOWED UP WITH A
QUESTION ABOUT WELL, WERE YOU
REASSURED AT LEAST THAT IN THIS
AGREEMENT IT TALKS ABOUT
CONSTITUTIONAL REFORMS OR
PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF
MINORITIES, HE SAID WHAT HE WANT
IS FEDERALIZATION IN THE
CONSTITUTION.
IT'S A RUSSIAN CODE WORD FOR
ESSENTIALLY CREATING A BUNCH OFE
SO DISCONNECTED FROM KIEV THEY
ARE EASILY MANIPULATED BY
RUSSIA.
>> Ifill: THAT MEANS RUSSIA
HAS THE UPPER HAND OR AT LEAST
THE LEVERAGE IN THESE KINDS OF
NEGOTIATIONS?
>> Warner: THAT'S AN
INTERESTING QUESTION.
CLEARLY ON THE GROUND RUSSIA HAS
THE LEVER CAJ.
THEY HAVE THE 40,000 --
LEVERAGE.
THEY HAVE 40,000 TROOPS AND
PEOPLE ON THE GROUND.
THEY HAVE THE INITIATIVE.
THE UNITED STATES AND THE WEST
HAVE AS THEIR PARTNER THIS
TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
THAT IS BACK ON ITS HEELS AND
STRUGGLING ON MANY LEVELS WHICH
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT.
THE ADMINISTRATION DOES BELIEVE
THAT THE SANCTIONS AND THREAT OF
SANCTIONS ON A BROADER SCALE
GIVE THE U.S. AND THE WEST SOME
LEVERAGE.
YOU HEARD PROBE SAY THAT --
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAY THAT WHEN
HE -- HE DIDN'T SAY SOMETHING
BROUGHT RUSSIA TO THE TABLE BUT
HE SAID ESSENTIALLY THEY
RECOGNIZE THAT THEIR ECONOMY
WHICH IS ACTUAL -- I THINK HE
SAID -- STUCK IN THE MUD HAS
BEEN HURT BY FURTHER SANCTIONS
AND PERHAPS THEY ARE THINKING
ABOUT THE FACT THAT FURTHER
SANCTIONS WOULD DAMAGE THEM
MORE.
>> Ifill: WE HEAR THAT THE
U.S. STEPSD TAKES AWAY
TROOPS AND RUSSIA HERES THAT
MADON IS DISARMED.
>> Warner: CERTAINLY HOW
SUPPORTERS HEAR IT.
THE PRESIDENT AND SECRETARY
KERRY ARE PUTTING THE ONUS, AS
WE HEARD, SQUARELY ON THE
RUSSIANS, RIGHT?
>> Ifill: RIGHT.
>> Warner: BUT IN THE PRESS
CONFERENCE SECRETARY KERRY SAID
I MADE IT CLEAR IF HE WANT SEE
IMPROVEMENT BY THE WEEKEND
THERE'S MORE COSTS BUT THEY TOLD
RUSSIAN REPORTERS AS FAR AS
WE'RE CONCERNED IT'S UP TO THE
UKRAINE.
>> Ifill: WHO HAS TO ENFORCE
THIS DEAL ASSUMING IT'SES AN
ENFORCEABLE DEAL?
WEATHER THEY TALK ABOUT A
MONITOR.
IT'S A WELL MEANING BUT I WOULD
SAY TOOTHLESS GROUP CREATED
AFTER THE COLD WAR.
THEY DON'T HAVE ANY ENFORCEMENT.
THEY MAY BE THE EYES AND EARS.
I THINK TELEVISION CAMERAS ARE
THE GREATER EYES AND EARS.
THE QUESTION IS IS THERE
QUIBBLING ABOUT LANGUAGE.
DOES ENDING ALL OCCUPATIONS MEAN
THAT FIRST THE PRO-KIEV
GOVERNMENT PROTESTERS HAVE TO
DISBAND AND ALL THAT WE HAVEN'T
GOTTEN A FINE GRANULAR MEANING
OF THESE MEETINGS AND WHAT THEY
WERE BECAUSE THEY WERE ON A
PLANE.
THAT WAS WHERE -- I DON'T WANT
TO USE THE CLICHE THAT THE DEVIL
IS IN THE DETAILS BUT REALLY THE
ADMINISTRATION DOESN'T KNOW.
>> Ifill: THE GLITZY CALL IN
SHOW WEATHER THE ANNUAL EVENT.
>> Ifill: WHERE HE TOOK
QUESTIONS FROM MANY INCLUDING
EDWARD SNOWDEN.
WHAT DID THE U.S. SEE THAT GAVE
THEM REASON TO HOPE AND WHAT DID
THEY SEE THAT WORRIED THEM?
>> Warner: I DON'T THINK THEY
SAY MUCH REASON TO HOPE.
HE DID THAT FIRST, ALMOST LIKE
LAYING THE GROUNDWORK FOR THE
TALKS.
THEY SAW THE COCKY VLADMIR
PUTIN.
THEY TRIED TO MAKE MUCH OF THE
FACT THAT A-HA HE ADMITTED
RUSSIANS WERE BEHIND CRIMEA AND
THEY ARE FOLLOWING THE SAME
PLAYBOOK IN UKRAINE.
THEY WERE TROUBLED BY TWO THINGS
ONE HE STARTED ABOUT TALKING
EASTERN AND SOUTHERN UKRAINE AS
A TERM THAT GOES BACK 300 YEARS
WHEN THIS WHOLE AREA WEST TO
MOLDAVIA AND ALL THE WAY EAST TO
THE RUSSIAN BORDER WERE PART OF
RUSSIA.
>> Ifill: THEY CALL THAT NEW
>> Warner: THAT'S WHAT THAT
RUSSIA.
MEANS.
>> Warner: THAT'S WHAT THAT
THAT WAS THE TERM.
MEANS.
HE SAID SOMETHING ABOUT
THAT WAS THE TERM.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN] IT WAS GIVEN
HE SAID SOMETHING ABOUT
AWAY IN 1920'S.
[SPEAKING RUSSIAN] IT WAS GIVEN
WHY?
AWAY IN 1920'S.
ONLY GOD KNOWS.
WHY?
SO IT SOUNDS TO PEOPLE IN THE
ONLY GOD KNOWS.
ADMINISTRATION AS IF HE IS
SO IT SOUNDS TO PEOPLE IN THE
LAYING THAT SORT OF HISTORICAL.
ADMINISTRATION AS IF HE IS
>> Ifill: AGAIN.
LAYING THAT SORT OF HISTORICAL.
>> Warner: RACE NAL ONCE
>> Ifill: AGAIN.
AGAIN.
>> Warner: RACE NAL ONCE
>> Ifill: MARN GET WARNER,
AGAIN.
THANKS ALWAYS FOR CLEARING IT UP
>> Ifill: MARN GET WARNER,
FOR US.
THANKS ALWAYS FOR CLEARING IT UP
>> Warner: MY PLEASURE.
FOR US.
>> Woodruff: NINE MONTHS AFTER
>> Warner: MY PLEASURE.
IT BECAME THE LARGEST CITY IN
>> Woodruff: NINE MONTHS AFTER
THE U.S. TO DECLARE BANKRUPTCY,
IT BECAME THE LARGEST CITY IN
DETROIT IS DRAWING CLOSER TO A
THE U.S. TO DECLARE BANKRUPTCY,
DEAL ON HOW TO PROTECT CURRENT
DETROIT IS DRAWING CLOSER TO A
AND FORMER CITY WORKERS FROM
DEAL ON HOW TO PROTECT CURRENT
DEEP PENSION CUTS.
AND FORMER CITY WORKERS FROM
UNTIL RECENTLY, OFFICIALS HAD
DEEP PENSION CUTS.
BEEN WARNING OF PAINFULLY LARGE
UNTIL RECENTLY, OFFICIALS HAD
PENSION REDUCTIONS.
BEEN WARNING OF PAINFULLY LARGE
THE SHIFT WAS ANNOUNCED
PENSION REDUCTIONS.
YESTERDAY, AND TODAY, LEADERS OF
THE SHIFT WAS ANNOUNCED
THE RETIRED POLICE AND
YESTERDAY, AND TODAY, LEADERS OF
FIREFIGHTERS GROUP VOTED IN
THE RETIRED POLICE AND
FAVOR OF IT.
FIREFIGHTERS GROUP VOTED IN
PENSIONS FOR THOSE RETIREES HAD
FAVOR OF IT.
FACED A PENSION CUT OF UP TO
PENSIONS FOR THOSE RETIREES HAD
14%.
FACED A PENSION CUT OF UP TO
UNDER THE NEW DEAL, THEY WOULD
14%.
NOT TAKE A CUT.
UNDER THE NEW DEAL, THEY WOULD
OTHER CIVILIAN WORKERS FACED A
NOT TAKE A CUT.
REDUCTION THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
OTHER CIVILIAN WORKERS FACED A
AS HIGH AS 34%.
REDUCTION THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
THAT'S BEEN SCALED BACK TO 4.5%.
AS HIGH AS 34%.
ANY ACTION ON PENSIONS IS BEING
THAT'S BEEN SCALED BACK TO 4.5%.
WATCHED BY OTHER CITIES THAT
ANY ACTION ON PENSIONS IS BEING
CONFRONT HUGE DEBT.
WATCHED BY OTHER CITIES THAT
PUBLIC TELEVISION IS HERE TO
CONFRONT HUGE DEBT.
FILL IN THE PICTURE.
PUBLIC TELEVISION IS HERE TO
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM,
FILL IN THE PICTURE.
CHRISTY McDONALD.
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM,
AM I RIGHT THAT THERE WERE THESE
CHRISTY McDONALD.
DIRE WARNINGS UP UNTIL JUST A
AM I RIGHT THAT THERE WERE THESE
DAY OR SO AGO THAT PENSION CUTS
DIRE WARNINGS UP UNTIL JUST A
COULD BE ENORMOUS?
DAY OR SO AGO THAT PENSION CUTS
>> ABSOLUTELY, JUDY.
COULD BE ENORMOUS?
THAT'S PROBABLY PART OF THE
>> ABSOLUTELY, JUDY.
NEGOTIATION PROCESS.
THAT'S PROBABLY PART OF THE
YOU DON'T COME TO THE TABLE WITH
NEGOTIATION PROCESS.
THE BEST DEAL.
YOU DON'T COME TO THE TABLE WITH
YOU HAVE TO START THE
THE BEST DEAL.
NEGOTIATION.
YOU HAVE TO START THE
THE NEGOTIATIONS HAVE BEEN
NEGOTIATION.
COMING FAST AND IF YOU AROUS
THE NEGOTIATIONS HAVE BEEN
SINCE THE CITY PUT THE FIRST
COMING FAST AND IF YOU AROUS
PLAN OF ADJUSTMENT ON THE TABLE
SINCE THE CITY PUT THE FIRST
A MONTH OR SO AGO WHICH IS THE
PLAN OF ADJUSTMENT ON THE TABLE
ROAD MAP OF HOW DETROIT IS GOING
A MONTH OR SO AGO WHICH IS THE
TO GET ITSELF OUT OF BANKRUPT
ROAD MAP OF HOW DETROIT IS GOING
SIX THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF --
TO GET ITSELF OUT OF BANKRUPT
BANKRUPTCY.
SIX THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF --
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF BACK AND
BANKRUPTCY.
FORTH AND ALSO MOVING PARTS IN
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF BACK AND
DIFFERENT ASPECTS TO TRY TO
FORTH AND ALSO MOVING PARTS IN
OFFSET THE PENSION CUTS.
DIFFERENT ASPECTS TO TRY TO
IT'S SOMETHING CALLED THE GRAND
OFFSET THE PENSION CUTS.
BARGAIN.
IT'S SOMETHING CALLED THE GRAND
IT'S WHAT WE'RE CALLING IT IN
BARGAIN.
THE CITY OF DETROIT.
IT'S WHAT WE'RE CALLING IT IN
WHAT IT IS IS $815 MILLION THAT
THE CITY OF DETROIT.
WOULD HELP PROTECT ART AT THE
WHAT IT IS IS $815 MILLION THAT
DIA FROM BEING LIQUID DATED AND
WOULD HELP PROTECT ART AT THE
SOLD TO OFFSET PENSION CUTS.
DIA FROM BEING LIQUID DATED AND
SOME OF THE MONEY WOULD COME
SOLD TO OFFSET PENSION CUTS.
FROM FOUNDATIONS.
SOME OF THE MONEY WOULD COME
$350 MILLION OF THAT WOULD ALSO
FROM FOUNDATIONS.
COME FROM THE STATE.
$350 MILLION OF THAT WOULD ALSO
>> Woodruff: WHAT TURNED THIS
COME FROM THE STATE.
SNARN BECAUSE THERE WAS A
>> Woodruff: WHAT TURNED THIS
SERIOUS CONCERN THAT THE
SNARN BECAUSE THERE WAS A
RETIREES WERE GOING TO TAKE A
SERIOUS CONCERN THAT THE
BIG HIT?
RETIREES WERE GOING TO TAKE A
WHAT BROKE THE DAM?
BIG HIT?
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE PROCESS
WHAT BROKE THE DAM?
NO ONE IS GOING TO BE HAPPY AT
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE PROCESS
THE END OF A BANKRUPTCY PROCESS.
NO ONE IS GOING TO BE HAPPY AT
YOU KNOW THE BANK WILL TAKE A
THE END OF A BANKRUPTCY PROCESS.
SEVERE HAIRCUT BUT THE MOST
YOU KNOW THE BANK WILL TAKE A
VULNERABLE ARE THE RETIREES.
SEVERE HAIRCUT BUT THE MOST
THE PEOPLE WHO WORKED FOR THE
VULNERABLE ARE THE RETIREES.
CITY OF DETROIT AND PROMISED A
THE PEOPLE WHO WORKED FOR THE
PENSION AND IT WAS PROTECTED BY
CITY OF DETROIT AND PROMISED A
THE STATE CONSTITUTION.
PENSION AND IT WAS PROTECTED BY
THE BANKRUPTCY JUDGE SAID IN THE
THE STATE CONSTITUTION.
BEGINNING THIS IS FEDERAL
THE BANKRUPTCY JUDGE SAID IN THE
BANKRUPTCY COURT THE PENSIONS
BEGINNING THIS IS FEDERAL
ARE GOING TO BE ALLOWED TO BE
BANKRUPTCY COURT THE PENSIONS
TOUCHED.
ARE GOING TO BE ALLOWED TO BE
EVERYONE KNEW AND WAS LOOKING AT
TOUCHED.
THIS PENSION ISSUES AND RETIREES
EVERYONE KNEW AND WAS LOOKING AT
KNOWING THAT SOME SORT OF
THIS PENSION ISSUES AND RETIREES
SPECIAL PROTECTION WOULD HAVE TO
KNOWING THAT SOME SORT OF
COME TOWARDS THEM.
SPECIAL PROTECTION WOULD HAVE TO
I THINK YOU HAVE PEOPLE WORKING
COME TOWARDS THEM.
AT THE STATE LEVEL.
I THINK YOU HAVE PEOPLE WORKING
YOU ALSO HAVE PEOPLE EYEING THE
AT THE STATE LEVEL.
AS SETS OF THE DIA BECAUSE A LOT
YOU ALSO HAVE PEOPLE EYEING THE
OF VALUABLE ART WORKS ARE OWNED
AS SETS OF THE DIA BECAUSE A LOT
BY DETROIT.
OF VALUABLE ART WORKS ARE OWNED
THAT IS AN ASSET THAT COULD BE
BY DETROIT.
LIQUIDATED.
THAT IS AN ASSET THAT COULD BE
THEY WANTED TO PROTECT RETIREES,
LIQUIDATED.
SOME OF THEM MAKING $30,000 A
THEY WANTED TO PROTECT RETIREES,
YEAR IN THAT RETIREMENT.
SOME OF THEM MAKING $30,000 A
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS GOING TO
YEAR IN THAT RETIREMENT.
MAKE UP THE DIFFERENCE HERE?
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS GOING TO
WHERE IS THE MONEY COME SPHRG?
MAKE UP THE DIFFERENCE HERE?
>> A COUPLE OF PLACES, ONE THE
WHERE IS THE MONEY COME SPHRG?
STATE.
>> A COUPLE OF PLACES, ONE THE
$350 MILLION.
STATE.
THAT HAS TO BE APPROVED BY THE
$350 MILLION.
LEGISLATURE.
THAT HAS TO BE APPROVED BY THE
THEY ARE WATCHING THIS CAREFULLY
LEGISLATURE.
THIS THEY ARE GOING TO APPROVE
THEY ARE WATCHING THIS CAREFULLY
THIS OR NOT.
THIS THEY ARE GOING TO APPROVE
THEY ARE WATCHING TO SEE IF THE
THIS OR NOT.
PENSION BOARDS WILL GIVE A
THEY ARE WATCHING TO SEE IF THE
LITTLE BIT IN THE ENTIRE
PENSION BOARDS WILL GIVE A
NEGOTIATION PROCESS.
LITTLE BIT IN THE ENTIRE
THAT $350.
NEGOTIATION PROCESS.
WE'RE ALSO LOOKING AT
THAT $350.
FOUNDATIONS.
WE'RE ALSO LOOKING AT
SEVERAL POWERFUL FOUNDATIONS
FOUNDATIONS.
HAVE STEPPED FORWARD WITH
SEVERAL POWERFUL FOUNDATIONS
SEVERAL HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS
HAVE STEPPED FORWARD WITH
FOR THIS PROCESS.
SEVERAL HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS
ALSO THE DIA HAS PLEDGED THAT
FOR THIS PROCESS.
THEY WILL RAISE $100 MILLION AND
ALSO THE DIA HAS PLEDGED THAT
THIS IS OVER A SPAN OF ABOUT 20
THEY WILL RAISE $100 MILLION AND
YEARS.
THIS IS OVER A SPAN OF ABOUT 20
>> Woodruff: AS WE JUST
YEARS.
REPORTED, THE POLICE AND FIRE
>> Woodruff: AS WE JUST
UNION HAVE VOTED TO -- IN FAVOR
REPORTED, THE POLICE AND FIRE
OF THIS.
UNION HAVE VOTED TO -- IN FAVOR
DOES THAT MEAN THAT THE RETIREES
OF THIS.
ACROSS THE BOARD ARE HAPPY WITH
DOES THAT MEAN THAT THE RETIREES
THIS?
ACROSS THE BOARD ARE HAPPY WITH
>> IT'S NOT A DONE DEAL YET.
THIS?
BUT THE BOARDS, THE GENERAL
>> IT'S NOT A DONE DEAL YET.
PENSION BOARD AND POLICE AND
BUT THE BOARDS, THE GENERAL
FIRE, THEY'VE ENDORSED THIS
PENSION BOARD AND POLICE AND
DEAL.
FIRE, THEY'VE ENDORSED THIS
THEY SAID TO THE RANK AND FILE,
DEAL.
OKAY, I THINK THIS PROBABLY THE
THEY SAID TO THE RANK AND FILE,
BEST WE'RE GOING TO GET.
OKAY, I THINK THIS PROBABLY THE
BUT EVER RETIREE HAS TO VOTE AND
BEST WE'RE GOING TO GET.
THAT VOTING PROCESS WILL START
BUT EVER RETIREE HAS TO VOTE AND
IN MAY AND GO TO JUNE.
THAT VOTING PROCESS WILL START
WHEN YOU GET TO THE ENDORSEMENT
IN MAY AND GO TO JUNE.
OF BOARDS GOING BACK AND FORTH
WHEN YOU GET TO THE ENDORSEMENT
IN THESE NEGOTIATIONS THAT THIS
OF BOARDS GOING BACK AND FORTH
MIGHT BE THE BEST DEAL THEY ARE
IN THESE NEGOTIATIONS THAT THIS
GOING TO GET THEY ARE LISTENINGG
MIGHT BE THE BEST DEAL THEY ARE
TO THAT.
GOING TO GET THEY ARE LISTENINGG
POLICE AND FIRE WON'T GET A CUT
TO THAT.
BUT THE COST OF LIVING
POLICE AND FIRE WON'T GET A CUT
ADJUSTMENT IT'S GOING TO DROP
BUT THE COST OF LIVING
FROM 2% TO 1% A YEAR AND COST OF
ADJUSTMENT IT'S GOING TO DROP
LIVING FOR THE GENERAL
FROM 2% TO 1% A YEAR AND COST OF
RETIREMENT FUND THEY ARE NOT
LIVING FOR THE GENERAL
GETTING ONE AT ALL.
RETIREMENT FUND THEY ARE NOT
>> Woodruff: JUST REMIND US
GETTING ONE AT ALL.
WHY THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
>> Woodruff: JUST REMIND US
THE CUT, THE POLICE AND FIRE
WHY THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
WORKERS ARE GOING TO TAKE,
THE CUT, THE POLICE AND FIRE
VERSUS ALL THE OTHER CITY
WORKERS ARE GOING TO TAKE,
EMPLOYEES?
VERSUS ALL THE OTHER CITY
>> YOU'VE GOT TWO DIFFERENT
EMPLOYEES?
PENSION BOARDS.
>> YOU'VE GOT TWO DIFFERENT
SO THEY MANAGE THEIR MONEY
PENSION BOARDS.
DIFFERENTLY.
SO THEY MANAGE THEIR MONEY
POLICE AND FIRE WEREN'T AS
DIFFERENTLY.
AGGRESSIVE.
POLICE AND FIRE WEREN'T AS
THEY WERE MORE MODERATE IN THE
AGGRESSIVE.
INVESTMENTS.
THEY WERE MORE MODERATE IN THE
THE OTHER PENSION FUND, A LITTLE
INVESTMENTS.
DIFFERENT.
THE OTHER PENSION FUND, A LITTLE
THEY SAY THAT ONE HAD THE
DIFFERENT.
SHORTFALL OF $4.5 BILLION.
THEY SAY THAT ONE HAD THE
THE BOARD DISPUTES THAT NUMBER A
SHORTFALL OF $4.5 BILLION.
LITTLE BIT AND SAID WE THINK
THE BOARD DISPUTES THAT NUMBER A
IT'S CLOSER TO $2.5 BILLION.
LITTLE BIT AND SAID WE THINK
YOU ARE LOOKING AT A HUGE AMOUNT
IT'S CLOSER TO $2.5 BILLION.
OF MONEY THERE.
YOU ARE LOOKING AT A HUGE AMOUNT
>> Woodruff: I JUST READ ON
OF MONEY THERE.
THE WIRES A FEW MINUTES AGO,
>> Woodruff: I JUST READ ON
THAT THE JUDGE OVERSEEING THIS
THE WIRES A FEW MINUTES AGO,
TODAY SAID IT'S ESSENTIAL THAT
THAT THE JUDGE OVERSEEING THIS
THE CITIES ELECTED LEADERS
TODAY SAID IT'S ESSENTIAL THAT
COMMIT TO SUPPORTING WHATEVER
THE CITIES ELECTED LEADERS
PLAN THEY COME UP WITH.
COMMIT TO SUPPORTING WHATEVER
>> ABSOLUTELY.
PLAN THEY COME UP WITH.
WE'RE GOING THROUGH THIS
>> ABSOLUTELY.
BANKRUPTCY PROCESS.
WE'RE GOING THROUGH THIS
THIS IS TAKING OF DETROIT'S
BANKRUPTCY PROCESS.
FINANCIALS.
THIS IS TAKING OF DETROIT'S
BUT WE'RE LOOKING AT WHAT IS
FINANCIALS.
DETROIT GOING TO LOOK LIKE
BUT WE'RE LOOKING AT WHAT IS
COMING OUT OF BANKRUPTCY?
DETROIT GOING TO LOOK LIKE
HOW IS THE CITY GOING TO
COMING OUT OF BANKRUPTCY?
FUNCTION?
HOW IS THE CITY GOING TO
THE PERSON REASON -- RUNNING
FUNCTION?
THIS IS KEVIN ORR.
THE PERSON REASON -- RUNNING
HIS TERM WILL BE UP.
THIS IS KEVIN ORR.
YOU WILL HAND THE REINS BACK
HIS TERM WILL BE UP.
OVER TO A MAYOR, CITY COUNCIL.
YOU WILL HAND THE REINS BACK
THEY ARE MAKING THE FINANCIAL
OVER TO A MAYOR, CITY COUNCIL.
DECISIONS ALL OVER AGAIN.
THEY ARE MAKING THE FINANCIAL
THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY
DECISIONS ALL OVER AGAIN.
ARE ON BOARD, THEY KNOW WHAT IS
THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY
GOING ON AND HAVE THAT PLAN FOR
ARE ON BOARD, THEY KNOW WHAT IS
COMING BACK OUT AGAIN AND
GOING ON AND HAVE THAT PLAN FOR
ENDORSING THAT PLAN SO THEY CAN
COMING BACK OUT AGAIN AND
MOVE AND MAKE SURE THAT DETROIT
ENDORSING THAT PLAN SO THEY CAN
CAN BE A LIVE ITING CITY --
MOVE AND MAKE SURE THAT DETROIT
THRIVING CITY AND A GROWING CITY
CAN BE A LIVE ITING CITY --
BECAUSE THAT'S THE GOAL HERE.
THRIVING CITY AND A GROWING CITY
>> Woodruff: CHRISTY
BECAUSE THAT'S THE GOAL HERE.
McDONALD WITH DETROIT PUBLIC
>> Woodruff: CHRISTY
TELEVISION, THANK YOU VERY HE
McDONALD WITH DETROIT PUBLIC
MUCH.
TELEVISION, THANK YOU VERY HE
>> Ifill: WE MOVE NOW TO THE
MUCH.
PACIFIC NORTHWEST AND PART ONE
>> Ifill: WE MOVE NOW TO THE
P
PACIFIC NORTHWEST AND PART ONE
DEBATE OVER RAISING THE MINIMUM
P
WAGE.
DEBATE OVER RAISING THE MINIMUM
TONIGHT, HE HAS THE LATEST ON A
WAGE.
STORY HE FIRST BROUGHT TO OUR
TONIGHT, HE HAS THE LATEST ON A
ATTENTION LAST FALL.
STORY HE FIRST BROUGHT TO OUR
>> Reporter: A LOT WAS AT STAKE
ATTENTION LAST FALL.
LAST NOVEMBER IN SEATLE,
>> Reporter: A LOT WAS AT STAKE
WASHINGTON, HOME OF THE SEATTLE-
LAST NOVEMBER IN SEATLE,
TACOMA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
WASHINGTON, HOME OF THE SEATTLE-
AS LOCAL CITIZENS DECIDED THE
TACOMA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
FATE OF A PROPOSITION TO JACK UP
AS LOCAL CITIZENS DECIDED THE
THE MINIMUM WAGE THERE TO $15 AN
FATE OF A PROPOSITION TO JACK UP
HOUR.
THE MINIMUM WAGE THERE TO $15 AN
FOR THOUSANDS OF WORKERS, THE
HOUR.
PROMISE OF A HUGE PAY HIKE, 63%
FOR THOUSANDS OF WORKERS, THE
IF THEY WERE MAKING THE STATE
PROMISE OF A HUGE PAY HIKE, 63%
MINIMUM OF $9.19 AN HOUR.
IF THEY WERE MAKING THE STATE
PLUS, PAID SICK LEAVE, WHICH
MINIMUM OF $9.19 AN HOUR.
PROMISED TO BE A BENEFIT FOR THE
PLUS, PAID SICK LEAVE, WHICH
FLYING PUBLIC AS WE
PROMISED TO BE A BENEFIT FOR THE
>> EVERY EMPLOYEE THAT I WORK
FLYING PUBLIC AS WE
WITH COMES TO WORK SICK BECAUSE
>> EVERY EMPLOYEE THAT I WORK
THEY HAVE TO PUT FOOD ON THE
WITH COMES TO WORK SICK BECAUSE
TABLE.
THEY HAVE TO PUT FOOD ON THE
>> IMAGINE YOU'RE FLYING IN THE
TABLE.
AIRPLANE.
>> IMAGINE YOU'RE FLYING IN THE
THE WORKER WHO CLEAN UP THE
AIRPLANE.
AIRPLANE BEFORE YOU FLY, HE WAS
THE WORKER WHO CLEAN UP THE
SICK AND HE'S CLEANING THE
AIRPLANE BEFORE YOU FLY, HE WAS
AIRPLANE, IMAGINE YOU EATING ON
SICK AND HE'S CLEANING THE
THAT TABLE, YOU KNOW?
AIRPLANE, IMAGINE YOU EATING ON
>> Reporter: BUT HIGHER COSTS
THAT TABLE, YOU KNOW?
WOULD BOOMERANG AGAINST LOW-
>> Reporter: BUT HIGHER COSTS
INCOME WORKERS, BUSINESS
WOULD BOOMERANG AGAINST LOW-
SPOKESMAN MAXFORD NELSON
INCOME WORKERS, BUSINESS
INSISTED.
SPOKESMAN MAXFORD NELSON
>> THE WORKERS WHO RETAIN THEIR
INSISTED.
JOBS MIGHT BE BETTER OFF, BUT AN
>> THE WORKERS WHO RETAIN THEIR
INCREASED NUMBER OF OTHER
JOBS MIGHT BE BETTER OFF, BUT AN
WORKERS LOSE THEIR JOBS
INCREASED NUMBER OF OTHER
>> Reporter: A BITTER, COSTLY
WORKERS LOSE THEIR JOBS
CAMPAIGN ENSUED, A RECOUNT, AND
>> Reporter: A BITTER, COSTLY
IN THE END THE AYES HAD IT BY 77
CAMPAIGN ENSUED, A RECOUNT, AND
VOTES.
IN THE END THE AYES HAD IT BY 77
BUT ON DECISION DAY, ALASKA
VOTES.
AIRLINES-- THE MAIN OPPONENT OF
BUT ON DECISION DAY, ALASKA
THE $15 MINIMUM WAGE
AIRLINES-- THE MAIN OPPONENT OF
PROPOSITION-- FILED A LAWSUIT IN
THE $15 MINIMUM WAGE
COUNTY COURT, ARGUING THAT A
PROPOSITION-- FILED A LAWSUIT IN
CITY CAN'T SET ORDINANCES FOR AN
COUNTY COURT, ARGUING THAT A
AIRPORT OPERATING WITHIN ITS
CITY CAN'T SET ORDINANCES FOR AN
BORDERS.
AIRPORT OPERATING WITHIN ITS
>> UNFORTUNATELY, A COUNTY JUDGE
BORDERS.
AGREED WITH ALASKA AIRLINES AND
>> UNFORTUNATELY, A COUNTY JUDGE
TOOK AWAY THE BENEFITS FOR ABOUT
AGREED WITH ALASKA AIRLINES AND
4,700 WORKERS AT SEA-TAC
TOOK AWAY THE BENEFITS FOR ABOUT
AIRPORT.
4,700 WORKERS AT SEA-TAC
>> Reporter: HEATHER WEINER IS
AIRPORT.
SPOKESPERSON FOR THE PRO $15
>> Reporter: HEATHER WEINER IS
MINIMUM WAGE SIDE.
SPOKESPERSON FOR THE PRO $15
>> I'M BEING A LITTLE CHEEKY
MINIMUM WAGE SIDE.
WHEN I SAY THIS, BUT IT'S LIKE A
>> I'M BEING A LITTLE CHEEKY
MINI-BANGLADESH OVER THERE RIGHT
WHEN I SAY THIS, BUT IT'S LIKE A
NOW.
MINI-BANGLADESH OVER THERE RIGHT
YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT HIGH END
NOW.
PRODUCTS AND AIRFARE, AND PEOPLE
YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT HIGH END
WITH HIGH INCOME FLYING IN AND
PRODUCTS AND AIRFARE, AND PEOPLE
OUT OF SEA-TAC.
WITH HIGH INCOME FLYING IN AND
30 MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR.
OUT OF SEA-TAC.
AND YET, THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
30 MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR.
MOVING THE BAGS, PUSHING THE
AND YET, THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
WHEELCHAIRS, SERVING THE FOOD,
MOVING THE BAGS, PUSHING THE
SELLING THE MAGAZINES, AREN'T
WHEELCHAIRS, SERVING THE FOOD,
ABLE TO SUPPORT THEIR FAMILIES.
SELLING THE MAGAZINES, AREN'T
IT'S REALLY A TRAGEDY.
ABLE TO SUPPORT THEIR FAMILIES.
>> Reporter: JUST OUTSIDE THE
IT'S REALLY A TRAGEDY.
AIRPORT, AT SEA-TAC'S LARGER
>> Reporter: JUST OUTSIDE THE
HOTELS AND PARKING LOTS SOME
AIRPORT, AT SEA-TAC'S LARGER
1,600 WORKERS DID GET THEIR
HOTELS AND PARKING LOTS SOME
RAISES, ON JANUARY FIRST.
1,600 WORKERS DID GET THEIR
BUT FOR THE 5,000 OR SO WORKERS
RAISES, ON JANUARY FIRST.
ON AIRPORT PROPERTY, THE COURT
BUT FOR THE 5,000 OR SO WORKERS
DECISION-- NOW BEING APPEALED--
ON AIRPORT PROPERTY, THE COURT
WAS A BODY BLOW.
DECISION-- NOW BEING APPEALED--
>> HEARING THIS, MY HEART JUST
WAS A BODY BLOW.
SUNK.
>> HEARING THIS, MY HEART JUST
I FEEL THAT NOW I CAN NEVER GET
SUNK.
AHEAD.
I FEEL THAT NOW I CAN NEVER GET
>> Reporter: JENAY ZIMMERMAN,
AHEAD.
WHO MANAGES TAXIS AT THE
>> Reporter: JENAY ZIMMERMAN,
AIRPORT, STILL MAKES $11.90 AN
WHO MANAGES TAXIS AT THE
HOUR.
AIRPORT, STILL MAKES $11.90 AN
BAGGAGE HANDLER JOSHUA VINA OF
HOUR.
MENZIES AVIATION, WHICH SERVICES
BAGGAGE HANDLER JOSHUA VINA OF
SEVERAL AIRLINES HERE, INCLUDING
MENZIES AVIATION, WHICH SERVICES
ALASKA, STILL EARNS $9.50 AN
SEVERAL AIRLINES HERE, INCLUDING
HOUR.
ALASKA, STILL EARNS $9.50 AN
>> IT WAS ACTUALLY GONNA HELP ME
HOUR.
PAY A LOT OF THINGS OFF.
>> IT WAS ACTUALLY GONNA HELP ME
IT WAS GONNA HELP ME HAVE A LOT
PAY A LOT OF THINGS OFF.
MORE THINGS TO GIVE TO MY WIFE
IT WAS GONNA HELP ME HAVE A LOT
AND MY SON.
MORE THINGS TO GIVE TO MY WIFE
I'M BARELY SUPPORTING THEM RIGHT
AND MY SON.
NOW WITH THIS.
I'M BARELY SUPPORTING THEM RIGHT
>> Reporter: A DECADE AGO,
NOW WITH THIS.
ALASKA AIRLINES' RAMP WORKERS
>> Reporter: A DECADE AGO,
HAD A UNION CONTRACT PAYING OVER
ALASKA AIRLINES' RAMP WORKERS
$20 AN HOUR, PLUS BENEFITS, IF
HAD A UNION CONTRACT PAYING OVER
YOU'D BEEN THERE A FEW YEARS.
$20 AN HOUR, PLUS BENEFITS, IF
BUT WHEN WE WERE HERE IN
YOU'D BEEN THERE A FEW YEARS.
NOVEMBER, WE SAW SOME CURRENT
BUT WHEN WE WERE HERE IN
WORKERS ON A FREE FOOD LINE AT
NOVEMBER, WE SAW SOME CURRENT
CHURCH.
WORKERS ON A FREE FOOD LINE AT
HEATHER WEINER WAS EAGER TO TELL
CHURCH.
US WHY.
HEATHER WEINER WAS EAGER TO TELL
>> IN 2005 ALASKA AIRLINES FIRED
US WHY.
500 PEOPLE.
>> IN 2005 ALASKA AIRLINES FIRED
THEY JUST LAID THEM OFF WITHOUT
500 PEOPLE.
ANY KIND OF NOTICE AND REPLACED
THEY JUST LAID THEM OFF WITHOUT
THOSE PEOPLE WITH LOW WAGE JOBS
ANY KIND OF NOTICE AND REPLACED
AT MENZIES AVIATION.
THOSE PEOPLE WITH LOW WAGE JOBS
MENZIES AVIATION IS NOW THE
AT MENZIES AVIATION.
CORPORATION THAT HANDLES MORE
MENZIES AVIATION IS NOW THE
THAN HALF OF THE BAGS AND OTHER
CORPORATION THAT HANDLES MORE
SERVICES FOR ALASKA AND AT SEA-
THAN HALF OF THE BAGS AND OTHER
TAC AIRPORT.
SERVICES FOR ALASKA AND AT SEA-
AND MEANWHILE, ALASKA AIRLINES
TAC AIRPORT.
PROFITS ARE WAY UP.
AND MEANWHILE, ALASKA AIRLINES
THEY REPORTED HALF A BILLION
PROFITS ARE WAY UP.
DOLLARS IN PROFITS IN 2013, AND
THEY REPORTED HALF A BILLION
THE WAY THEY DID THAT WAS IN
DOLLARS IN PROFITS IN 2013, AND
PART MAKING SURE THAT THE PEOPLE
THE WAY THEY DID THAT WAS IN
WHO WORK FOR THEM DON'T MAKE ANY
PART MAKING SURE THAT THE PEOPLE
MORE THAN MINIMUM WAGE.
WHO WORK FOR THEM DON'T MAKE ANY
>> Reporter: THE CONNECTION
MORE THAN MINIMUM WAGE.
BETWEEN WAGES AND PROFITS IS
>> Reporter: THE CONNECTION
PRETTY OBVIOUS, SAYS SEATTLE
BETWEEN WAGES AND PROFITS IS
VENTURE CAPITALIST NICK HANAUER,
PRETTY OBVIOUS, SAYS SEATTLE
AN OUTSPOKEN ADVOCATE FOR THE
VENTURE CAPITALIST NICK HANAUER,
$15 MINIMUM WAGE.
AN OUTSPOKEN ADVOCATE FOR THE
>> CLEARLY THE C.E.O. AND SENIOR
$15 MINIMUM WAGE.
MANAGERS OF ALASKA AIRLINES, AND
>> CLEARLY THE C.E.O. AND SENIOR
THEIR BOARD OF DIRECTORS, AND
MANAGERS OF ALASKA AIRLINES, AND
THEIR SHAREHOLDERS WOULD PREFER
THEIR BOARD OF DIRECTORS, AND
THAT MOST OF THE VALUE CREATED
THEIR SHAREHOLDERS WOULD PREFER
BY THAT ENTERPRISE GOES TO THEM
THAT MOST OF THE VALUE CREATED
AND ALMOST NONE OF THE VALUE
BY THAT ENTERPRISE GOES TO THEM
CREATED BY THAT ENTERPRISE GOES
AND ALMOST NONE OF THE VALUE
TO THEIR WORKERS.
CREATED BY THAT ENTERPRISE GOES
>> Reporter: ALASKA AIRLINES
TO THEIR WORKERS.
DECLINED OUR INTERVIEW REQUEST,
>> Reporter: ALASKA AIRLINES
BUT SENT A WRITTEN STATEMENT:
>> Reporter: WE TRIED TO REACH
ALASKA'S BUSINESS PARTNERS, AND
OTHER SEA-TAC AIRPORT
CONTRACTORS.
21 COMPANIES IN ALL, NONE OF
WHICH AGREED TO AN INTERVIEW.
>> APPRECIATE THE CALL BUT WE'RE
GONNA PASS.
>> Reporter: EVEN THE OFF-
AIRPORT EMPLOYERS COMPLYING WITH
THE LAW TOOK A PASS THOUGH SOME
LAMENTED IT TO LOCAL REPORTERS.
>> THE CEDARBROOK LODGE SAID
THAT THEY WERE GONNA HAVE TO LAY
OFF EMPLOYEES AND INSTEAD
THEY'RE DOUBLING THEIR ROOM
CAPACITY AND HIRING.
>> Reporter: UNION LEADER DAVID
ROLF WAS A PRIME MOVER BEHIND
PROPOSITION ONE.
>> I THINK THERE WAS A LOT OF
RHETORIC DESIGNED TO SCARE
PEOPLE LEADING UP TO THAT
ELECTION AND SO FAR ALL OF THE
DOOM AND GLOOM HAS NOT PROVEN
CORRECT.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, AS BOTH
SIDES AWAIT THE STATE SUPREME
COURT'S RULING ON APPEAL, SOME
SEA-TAC AIRPORT WORKERS AREN'T
WAITING AROUND FOR JUDICIAL
RELIEF.
TRACEY THOMPSON IS SECRETARY-
TREASURER OF LOCAL 117 OF THE
TEAMSTERS.
>> IT'S NOT JUST THE REPRESENTED
WORKERS THAT MATTER, IT'S THE
NON-REPRESENTED WORKERS AND
WOMEN AND PERSONS OF COLOR ARE
THE ONES WHO ARE SUFFERING MOST
BY HAVING SUCH LOW MINIMUM WAGE
AND POVERTY LEVEL WAGES HERE.
>> Reporter: WORKERS LIKE HANI
OSMAN, A DRIVER AT SEA-TAC
AIRPORT'S AVIS BUDGET RENT-A-
CAR, WHICH THE TEAMSTERS
RECENTLY SUCCEEDED IN ORGANIZING
WITH THE HELP OF THIS SOMALI
REFUGEE.
>> WE DON'T GET VACATION.
WE DON'T GET SICK CALL.
WE DON'T GET NOTHING AND THAT'S
WHY WE FOUGHT FOR THE UNION.
>> Reporter: WE MET OSMAN AT THE
SEA-TAC TEAMSTERS HALL, WHERE
SHE AND OTHERS WERE VOTING ON
THEIR FIRST UNION CONTRACT,
WHICH WILL GUARANTEE HEALTHCARE,
RETIREMENT, VACATION, SICK
LEAVE, A GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND
$15 AN HOUR IF THE LOWER COURT
DECISION IS OVERTURNED.
>> Reporter: ARE YOU REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT THE FACT THAT YOU
HAVE NOW GOTTEN A UNION?
>> WE'RE SO HAPPY ABOUT IT.
EVERYBODY'S SO HAPPY ABOUT IT.
AND NOW WE'RE GETTING SOME
RESULTS.
>> Reporter: WHAT KIND OF
RESULTS?
>> FOR EXAMPLE, IF WE HIT A CAR,
WE USED TO GET SUSPENDED.
YOU MOVE LIKE 100 CARS A DAY AND
IF YOU SCRATCH A LITTLE CAR, YOU
GET SUSPENDED FOR TWO WEEKS
WITHOUT PAY.
>> Reporter: REALLY?
>> YEAH, AND NOW WE DON'T HAVE
TO SEE THAT AGAIN.
>> Reporter: WHICH BRINGS US TO
ONE FINAL NOTE: THE COMPANY THAT
DIRECTLY EMPLOYS HANI OSMAN AND
COLLEAGUES ISN'T AVIS-BUDGET.
IT'S THE G.C.A. SERVICES GROUP.
>> G.C.A. IS A CONTRACTOR THAT
HAS 30,000 EMPLOYEES AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
THEY ARE OWNED BY BLACKSTONE,
WHICH IS A MAJOR WALL STREET
INVESTMENT GROUP, WHICH IS WORTH
HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
>> Reporter: THAT PROMPTED A
LAST QUESTION FOR MULTI-
MILLIONAIRE INVESTOR NICK
HANAUER ABOUT HIS FELLOW ONE-
HUNDREDTH OF THE ONE PERCENTERS.
>> Reporter: HOW DO YOU
PERSONALLY FEEL WHEN YOU HEAR
THAT A COMPANY LIKE BLACKSTONE
HAS TAKEN WORKERS WHO USED TO
WORK FOR AVIS AND BUDGET BACK TO
MINIMUM WAGE, SUBCONTRACTED?
>> ON THE ONE HAND, I FEEL LIKE
IT'S A MORAL ABOMINATION, BUT
THE TRUTH IS THAT THEY MAY HAVE
FELT THAT THEY NEEDED TO DO THAT
BECAUSE THEIR COMPETITOR HAD
ALREADY DONE IT AND THEY
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO COMPETE ON
PRICE IF THEY HADN'T.
>> Reporter: THE SEEMINGLY
INEXORABLE PRESSURE OF
COMPETITION, IN OTHER WORDS.
WHICH IS WHY THE WORKERS OF SEA-
TAC HAVE BEEN ORGANIZING, THEY
SAY, TO COUNTER WITH PRESSURE OF
THEIR OWN.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW FOR
SOMETHING OUT OF THIS WORLD.
NASA SCIENTISTS THINK THEY HAVE
DISCOVERED THE MOST "EARTH-LIKE"
PLANET YET, CIRCLING A STAR
THAT'S ABOUT 500 LIGHT YEARS
AWAY FROM US.
FOR NOW, YOU CAN JUST CALL IT
"KEPLER 186-F."
HARI SREENIVASAN IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIO HAS A FULLER LOOK AT WHY
IT'S EXCITING ASTRONOMERS.
>> Reporter: IT WAS DISCOVERED
BY THE KEPLER SPACE TELESCOPE.
AND AS SHOWN IN THIS ANIMATION,
IT'S SAID TO BE IN A SO-CALLED
"GOLDILOCKS ZONE," WHERE IT'S
NOT TOO FAR FROM ITS SUN.
"KEPLER-186" AND ITS
TEMPERATURES COULD BE JUST THE
RIGHT ENVIRONMENT TO ALLOW
LIQUID WATER TO FLOW ON ITS
SURFACE.
TOM BARCLAY IS PART OF THE NASA
TEAM AND WITH THE BAY AREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH
INSTITUTE.
HE JOINS US FROM MOUNTAIN VIEW,
CALIFORNIA.
SIMILIAR CHARACTERS TO EARTH.
GREEN HOUSE GASES AND LIQUID
WATER.
BOTH THOSE ARE ROCKY.
SO WE DEDUCED THAT BOTH PLANETS
MIGHT BE ROCKY.
40% BIGGER THAN ROCK.
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF WATER
AROUND THAT SURFACE.
GRAVITY IS GOING TO BE MUCH
HIGHER.
THEY MAY BE HOTTER INSIDE
WITHOUT A CORE, MANTLE AND
CRUST.
>> SO THIS PLANET ORBITS A STAR.
THIS STAR ALSO REVEALS LESS
STARLIGHT THAN WE RECEIVE FROM
THE SUN.
IT'LL BE A BIT DIMMER ON THE
SURFACE.
SIMILAR ILLUMINATION TO OUR
SUNSET.
MORE ORANGE, MORE RED, LESS BLUE
LIGHT TO SCATTER SO THE OCEAN'S
DULLER.
ICE SIMILAR TO STAR THAN WHAT WE
SEE.
SO THEY MAY BE AN ORANGE COLOR
AS WELL.
>> YOU'D FEEL SLIGHTLY MORE
GRAVITY.
MAYBE 40% MORE.
NO, THAT6 YEAR WOULD BE MUCH
SHORTER.
WE GO AROUND OUR STAR 365, THEY
GO AROUND 130 DAYS.
YOU'D HAVE MORE BIRTHDAYS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE NEXT
TELESCOPE?
>> CAN'T SEE THE STARS, NOT AS
BRIGHT.
NASA IS DEVELOPING TESS TO FIND
PLANETS SIMILAR BUT ORBITING OUR
NEIGHBORS.
ONCE WE FIND THOSE WE'LL TRY TO
STUDY THEIR ATMOSPHERES.
IS THERE WATER VAPOR AND
NITROGEN, CONDUCIVE TO LIFE.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: BOSTON.
FORT HOOD.
KANSAS CITY.
OKLAHOMA CITY.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN RANDOM MASS
VIOLENCE STRIKES AT HOME?
WHAT DO WE CALL IT, AND HOW DO
WE PROSECUTE IT?
THIS WEEK, LISA MONACO, THE
PRESIDENT'S CHIEF
COUNTERTERRORISM ADVISER, SPOKE
OUT ON THAT TOPIC IN A SPEECH AT
HARVARD'S KENNEDY SCHOOL.
SHE JOINS ME NOW.
IS IT TERORRISM?
>> VIOLENT EXTREMISM HAS BEEN
WITH US IN MANY FORMS.
WE NEED TO BRING COMMUNITY
EFFORTS TOGETHER TO COUNTER IT.
>> Ifill: WHAT WE CALL IT
MATTERS TOO, RIGHT?
YOU'RE A BOSTON NATIVE, IT HIT
CLOSE BUT STILL NOT "T" WORD.
>> WE GET CAUGHT UP IN LABELS.
LOOKING AT IT AS A HATE CRIME.
BUT WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS EXTREMISM
COMES IN ANY NUMBER OF FORMS.
IT'S NOT CONFINED TO ONE
COMMUNITY.
WE NEED TO REJECTIT REGARDLESS
OF FAITH.
>> Ifill: REGARDLESS OF
STANDING.
HOW IS THAT DIFFERENT FROM
RESPONDING TO OTHER KINDS OF
THREATS HOMELAND OR ELSEWHERE?
>> AN INDIVIDUAL BEING
RADICALIZED TO VIOLENCE.
WE HAVE TO DO A LOT MORE AS A
COMMUNITY TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
DRAWS PEOPLE TO VIOLENCE.
WE'RE TRYING TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
LEADERS, HOW CAN THEY INTERVENE
DRAWS PEOPLE TO VIOLENCE.
WITH INDIVIDUALS IN THEIR
LEADERS, HOW CAN THEY INTERVENE
COMMUNITY TO POINT THEM IN
WITH INDIVIDUALS IN THEIR
ANOTHER DIRECTION.
COMMUNITY TO POINT THEM IN
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU ACT
ANOTHER DIRECTION.
WHEN IT'S THE SAME TYPE OF
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU ACT
VIOLENCE, BUT IT'S JUST HERE.
WHEN IT'S THE SAME TYPE OF
HOW IS OUR REACTION AS A
VIOLENCE, BUT IT'S JUST HERE.
GOVERNMENT, AS A COMMUNITY?
HOW IS OUR REACTION AS A
HOW IS IT DIFFERENT OR SHOULD IT
GOVERNMENT, AS A COMMUNITY?
BE DIFFERENT?
HOW IS IT DIFFERENT OR SHOULD IT
>> WELL, WE HAVE A REALLY GOOD
BE DIFFERENT?
EXAMPLE IN THE BOSTON BOMBINGS.
>> WELL, WE HAVE A REALLY GOOD
WHAT WE SAW THERE AND
EXAMPLE IN THE BOSTON BOMBINGS.
COMMEMORATED AND REMEMBERED ON
WHAT WE SAW THERE AND
MONDAY WAS A COMMUNITY COMING
COMMEMORATED AND REMEMBERED ON
TOGETHER TO RESPOND BOTH MEDICAL
MONDAY WAS A COMMUNITY COMING
PROFESSIONALS, LAW ENFORCEMENT,
TOGETHER TO RESPOND BOTH MEDICAL
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO BOTH
PROFESSIONALS, LAW ENFORCEMENT,
RESPOND TO AN ATTACK, AN
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO BOTH
EXPRESSION OF VIOLENCE FROM TWO
RESPOND TO AN ATTACK, AN
INDIVIDUALS RADICALIZED, AND
EXPRESSION OF VIOLENCE FROM TWO
THEN TO HELP A COMMUNITY HEAL.
INDIVIDUALS RADICALIZED, AND
>> Woodruff: WHEN YOU TALK
THEN TO HELP A COMMUNITY HEAL.
ABOUT A COMMUNITY ACTION, IT
>> Woodruff: WHEN YOU TALK
ALMOST SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE SAYING
ABOUT A COMMUNITY ACTION, IT
NOT OVER HERE ON THE FEDERAL
ALMOST SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE SAYING
GOVERNMENT, OVER THERE IN YOUR
NOT OVER HERE ON THE FEDERAL
HOMETOWN.
GOVERNMENT, OVER THERE IN YOUR
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT WE'VE
HOMETOWN.
LEARNED IS THAT THERE ARE LIMITS
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT WE'VE
TO WHAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
LEARNED IS THAT THERE ARE LIMITS
CAN DO IN TERMS OF IDENTIFYING
TO WHAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BEING DRAWN
CAN DO IN TERMS OF IDENTIFYING
TO VIOLENCE.
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BEING DRAWN
WE'RE NOT ALWAYS GOING TO BE
TO VIOLENCE.
ABLE TO SEE THE WARNING SIGNS.
WE'RE NOT ALWAYS GOING TO BE
THE GOVERNMENT ISN'T BEST
ABLE TO SEE THE WARNING SIGNS.
POSITIONED TO SEE THAT,
THE GOVERNMENT ISN'T BEST
NECESSARILY ALL THE TIME.
POSITIONED TO SEE THAT,
>> Ifill: ARE WE IN BETTER
NECESSARILY ALL THE TIME.
POSITIONS HERE IN.
>> Ifill: ARE WE IN BETTER
>> I THINK WE CAN BE BY WORKING
POSITIONS HERE IN.
WITH THE COMMUNITY AND ENGAGING
>> I THINK WE CAN BE BY WORKING
MORE.
WITH THE COMMUNITY AND ENGAGING
WE'VE LOOKED AT THIS VERY HARD.
MORE.
WHAT WE'VE FOUND FROM ONE STUDY
WE'VE LOOKED AT THIS VERY HARD.
IS THAT IN 80% OF THE CASES,
WHAT WE'VE FOUND FROM ONE STUDY
COMMUNITY MEMBERS SAW WARNING
IS THAT IN 80% OF THE CASES,
SIGNS, BUT THEY DIDN'T SEE THEM
COMMUNITY MEMBERS SAW WARNING
AS AN INDICATOR OF A PROBLEM,
SIGNS, BUT THEY DIDN'T SEE THEM
WHETHER IT WAS A TEACHER,
AS AN INDICATOR OF A PROBLEM,
HEARING FROM A STUDENT THAT THEY
WHETHER IT WAS A TEACHER,
WERE INTERESTED IN TRAVELING
HEARING FROM A STUDENT THAT THEY
ABROAD TO FIGHT, WHETHER A
WERE INTERESTED IN TRAVELING
PARENT SEEING A KID BEING MOREN.
ABROAD TO FIGHT, WHETHER A
WE HAVE TO LEARN TOGETHER AND
PARENT SEEING A KID BEING MOREN.
EDUCATE COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND
WE HAVE TO LEARN TOGETHER AND
TRUST COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO CAN
EDUCATE COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND
COME AND INTERVENE AND POINT
TRUST COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO CAN
THAT, USUALLY YOUTH, TO A
COME AND INTERVENE AND POINT
DIFFERENT PATH.
THAT, USUALLY YOUTH, TO A
>> Ifill: IS WATCHING FOR
DIFFERENT PATH.
SIGNS, WATCHING FOR BEHAVIOR
>> Ifill: IS WATCHING FOR
CHANGES, IS THAT A LITTLE
SIGNS, WATCHING FOR BEHAVIOR
PASSIVE IN THE FACE OF WHAT'S
CHANGES, IS THAT A LITTLE
SADLY AND REPEATEDLY A GROWING
PASSIVE IN THE FACE OF WHAT'S
PROBLEM HERE?
SADLY AND REPEATEDLY A GROWING
>> IT'S NOT THE ONLY THING WE'RE
PROBLEM HERE?
DOING.
>> IT'S NOT THE ONLY THING WE'RE
WE CERTAINLY NEED TO MAKE SURE
DOING.
WE AS A COMMUNITY ARE POISED TO
WE CERTAINLY NEED TO MAKE SURE
SEE THOSE WARNING SIGNS AND SEE
WE AS A COMMUNITY ARE POISED TO
THEM AS SIGNS OF TROUBLE, BUT
SEE THOSE WARNING SIGNS AND SEE
OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT NEEDS TO AND
THEM AS SIGNS OF TROUBLE, BUT
HAS BEEN, AND IN FACT BOSTON IS
OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT NEEDS TO AND
A GREAT EXAMPLE OF THIS, PREPARE
HAS BEEN, AND IN FACT BOSTON IS
FOR IN ADVANCE TO UNDERSTAND HOW
A GREAT EXAMPLE OF THIS, PREPARE
THEY'RE GOING TO RESPOND, HOW
FOR IN ADVANCE TO UNDERSTAND HOW
THEY'RE GOING TO WORK TOGETHER
THEY'RE GOING TO RESPOND, HOW
TO RESPOND TO AN ACT OF
THEY'RE GOING TO WORK TOGETHER
VIOLENCE.
TO RESPOND TO AN ACT OF
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED IN
VIOLENCE.
YOUR SPEECH IN CAMBRIDGE A
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED IN
COMPREHENSIVE PREVENTION MODEL.
YOUR SPEECH IN CAMBRIDGE A
>> MM-HMM.
COMPREHENSIVE PREVENTION MODEL.
>> Ifill: WHAT DOES THAT LOOK
>> MM-HMM.
LIKE AT THE FEDERAL, STATE AND
>> Ifill: WHAT DOES THAT LOOK
LOCAL LEVEL?
LIKE AT THE FEDERAL, STATE AND
>> IT'S ENGAGING COMMUNITY
LOCAL LEVEL?
MEMBERS AND NOT JUST ON THE
>> IT'S ENGAGING COMMUNITY
SECURITY SIDE, WHETHER
MEMBERS AND NOT JUST ON THE
EDUCATORS, HEALTH PROFESSIONALS,
SECURITY SIDE, WHETHER
RELIGIOUS LEADERS AS WELL,
EDUCATORS, HEALTH PROFESSIONALS,
SHARING BEST PRACTICES.
RELIGIOUS LEADERS AS WELL,
WHAT DO WE KNOW?
SHARING BEST PRACTICES.
WHAT HAS OUR EXPERTISE TAUGHT US
WHAT DO WE KNOW?
ABOUT HOW SOMEBODY BECOMES
WHAT HAS OUR EXPERTISE TAUGHT US
RADICALIZED?
ABOUT HOW SOMEBODY BECOMES
HOW CAN WE SHARE THAT
RADICALIZED?
INFORMATION SO THAT PEOPLE CAN
HOW CAN WE SHARE THAT
UNDERSTAND TO SEE THESE WARNING
INFORMATION SO THAT PEOPLE CAN
SIGNS?
UNDERSTAND TO SEE THESE WARNING
>> IS THAT A LAW ENFORCEMENT
SIGNS?
RESPONSE?
>> IS THAT A LAW ENFORCEMENT
THE DEBATE WE ALWAYS HAVE WHEN
RESPONSE?
THINGS HAPPEN IS WHETHER IT
THE DEBATE WE ALWAYS HAVE WHEN
SHOULD BE A LAW ENFORCEMENT
THINGS HAPPEN IS WHETHER IT
RESPONSE, DEBATE ABOUT GUN
SHOULD BE A LAW ENFORCEMENT
CONTROL, A MENTAL HEALTH
RESPONSE, DEBATE ABOUT GUN
RESPONSE OR SOMETHING ELSE LIKE
CONTROL, A MENTAL HEALTH
THAT OR ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT A
RESPONSE OR SOMETHING ELSE LIKE
COMBINATION OF ALL THESE THINGS?
THAT OR ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT A
>> ALL OF THEM.
COMBINATION OF ALL THESE THINGS?
>> Ifill: EMPHASIS ON ONE OR
>> ALL OF THEM.
THE OTHER?
>> Ifill: EMPHASIS ON ONE OR
>> IT CAN'T BE DONE IN ANY ONE
THE OTHER?
AREA.
>> IT CAN'T BE DONE IN ANY ONE
IT CAN BE DONE IN LAW
AREA.
ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE THIS IS A
IT CAN BE DONE IN LAW
PUBLIC SAFETY ISSUE WE'RE
ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE THIS IS A
TALKING ABOUT, AND LAW
PUBLIC SAFETY ISSUE WE'RE
ENFORCEMENT HAS A ROLE TO PLAY,
TALKING ABOUT, AND LAW
BUT SO DO TEACHERS AND PARENTS
ENFORCEMENT HAS A ROLE TO PLAY,
AND FAMILIES.
BUT SO DO TEACHERS AND PARENTS
>> Ifill: SHOULD THESE KINDS
AND FAMILIES.
OF CRIMES BE PROSECUTED
>> Ifill: SHOULD THESE KINDS
DIFFERENTLY?
OF CRIMES BE PROSECUTED
>> I GUESS IT DEPENDS ON WHAT
DIFFERENTLY?
YOU MEAN.
>> I GUESS IT DEPENDS ON WHAT
I THINK THEY'VE GOT TO BE
YOU MEAN.
PROSECUTED BASED ON THE FACTS
I THINK THEY'VE GOT TO BE
AND THE EVIDENCE THAT IS
PROSECUTED BASED ON THE FACTS
PRESENTED, H IS EXACTLY
AND THE EVIDENCE THAT IS
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN HERE.
PRESENTED, H IS EXACTLY
>> Ifill: YOU THINK THEY
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN HERE.
SHOULD BE PROSECUTED AS TERROR,
>> Ifill: YOU THINK THEY
AS DOMESTIC MURDER CHARGES, A
SHOULD BE PROSECUTED AS TERROR,
CRIMINAL CHARGE?
AS DOMESTIC MURDER CHARGES, A
>> WELL, IN BOTH INSTANCES,
CRIMINAL CHARGE?
WE'VE GOT STATUTES ON THE BOOK
>> WELL, IN BOTH INSTANCES,
THAT ARE GOING TO BE AVAILABLE
WE'VE GOT STATUTES ON THE BOOK
TO US AND WE CAN'T APPLY ANY ONE
THAT ARE GOING TO BE AVAILABLE
COOKIE CUTTER APPROACH TO IT.
TO US AND WE CAN'T APPLY ANY ONE
>> Reporter: THE ASSISTANT TO
COOKIE CUTTER APPROACH TO IT.
THE PRESIDENT FOR HOMELAND
>> Reporter: THE ASSISTANT TO
SECURITY AND COUNTERTERRORISM,
THE PRESIDENT FOR HOMELAND
THANK YOU SO MUCH, LISA, THANK
SECURITY AND COUNTERTERRORISM,
YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, LISA, THANK
>> GREAT T TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE U.S. RUSSIA, UKRAINE AND THE
EUROPEAN UNION ANNOUNCED AN
AGREEMENT TO EASE TENSIONS IN
UKRAINE.
IT CALLS FOR PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS TO STOP OCCUPYING
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS IN 10
CITIES.
SEARCH TEAMS SPENT A SECOND DAY
TRYING TO FIND MORE THAN 270
PEOPLE MISSING IN A FERRY
DISASTER OFF THE COAST OF
SOUTH KOREA.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA ANNOUNCED AT
LEAST EIGHT MILLION PEOPLE HAVE
ENROLLED FOR HEALTH INSURANCE
THROUGH THE FEDERAL AND STATE
EXCHANGES.
HE SAID, THAT SHOULD END ANY
DEBATE ABOUT REPEALING THE
HEALTH CARE LAW.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW.
IN ONE OF HER FAREWELL
PERFORMANCES, AN OREGON
BALLERINA DANCES IN PUBLIC
SPACES ACROSS THE CITY OF
PORTLAND FROM A PARK TO A
BARBERSHOP.
OUR PARTNERS AT OREGON PUBLIC
BROADCASTING RECORDED THE UNIQUE
RECITAL.
YOU CAN WATCH IT ON "ART BEAT."
AND WOULD A GUARANTEED BASIC
INCOME ALLOW WORKERS TO BECOME
EVEN MORE PRODUCTIVE CITIZENS?
PAUL SOLMAN TALKED TO AN OCCUPY
ACTIVIST WHO THINKS SO, READ
THEIR DISCUSSION ON MAKING
SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
IT'S BEEN OUR PRACTICE TO GATHER
THE NAMES OF THE FALLEN AS THEIR
DEATHS HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED AND
PHOTOGRAPHS BECAME AVAILABLE.
THAT LIST HAS GROWN SHORTER AS
COMBAT CASUALTIES HAVE DECLINED
SHARPLY.
TONIGHT, IN SILENCE, WE HONOR
TWO SOLDIERS.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, A REPORT ON MONTHS OF
POLITICAL UNREST AND PROTESTS IN
VENEZUELA.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.